GPT or Generative Pretrained Transformer is a large language model or an LLM that can generate
human-like text. And I've been using GPT in its various forms for years. In this video, we are going
to, number one, ask what is an LLM. Number two, we are going to describe how they work. And then
number three, we're going to ask what are the business applications of LLMs? So let's start with
number one, what is a large language model? Well, a large language model is an instance of something
else called a foundation model. Now, foundation models are pre-trained on large amounts of unlabeled
and self-supervised data, meaning the model learns from patterns in the data in a way that produces
generalizable and adaptable output. And large language models are instances of foundation models
applied specifically to text and text like things. I'm talking about things like code. Now, large
language models are trained on large data sets of text such as books, articles and conversations.
And look, when we say large, these models can be tens of gigabytes in size and trained on enormous
amounts of text data. We're talking potentially petabytes of data here. So to put that into
perspective, a text file that is let's say one gigabyte in size, that can store about 178 million
words. A lot of words just in one GB. And how many gigabytes are in a petabyte? Well, it's about one
million. Yeah, that's truly a lot of tech. Now, LLMs are also among the biggest models when it comes
to parameter count. A parameter is a value the model can change independently as it learns. And the
more parameters the model has, the more complex it can be. GTP3, for example, is pre-trained on a
corpus of actually 45 terabytes of data. And it uses 175 billion ML parameters. All right, so how do
they work? Well, we can think of it like this. L, L, M equals three things. Data. Architecture. And
lastly, we can think of it as training. Those three things are really the components of an LLM. Now,
we've already discussed the enormous amounts of text data that goes into these things. As for the
architecture, this is a neural network. And for GPT, that is a transformer. And the transformer
architecture enables the model to handle sequences of data like sentences or lines of code. And
transformers are designed to understand the context of each word in a sentence by considering it in
relation to every other word. This allows the model to build a comprehensive understanding of the
sentence structure and the meaning of the words within it. And then this architecture is trained on
all of this large amount of data. Now during training, the model learns to predict the next word in
a sentence. So the sky is, it starts off with a random guess. The sky is bug. But with each
iteration, the model adjusts its internal parameters to reduce the difference between its
predictions and the actual outcomes. And the model keeps doing this, gradually improving its word
predictions until it can reliably generate coherent sentences. Forget about bug. It can figure out
it's blue. Now, the model can be fine-tuned on a smaller, more specific dataset. Here the model
refines its understanding to be able to perform this specific task more accurately. Fine-tuning is
what allows a general language model to become an expert at a specific task. Okay, so how does this
all fit into number three, business applications? Well, for customer service applications,
businesses can use LLMs to create intelligent chatbots that can handle a variety of customer
queries, freeing up human agents for more complex issues. Another good field, content creation. That
can benefit from LLMs, which can help generate articles, emails, social media posts, and even
YouTube video scripts. There's an idea. Now LLMs can even contribute to software development. And
they can do that by helping to generate and review code. And look, that's just scratching the
surface as large language models continue to evolve. We're bound to discover more innovative
applications. And that's what I'm so enamored with large language models. If you have any questions,
please drop us a line below. And if you want to see more videos like this in the future, please like
and subscribe. Thanks for watching.